# Generic process-flow semantic comparison prompt

You are given two versions of the same process-flow diagram. They may be presented as separate images or as a side-by-side image. Treat the left/first version as the reference and the right/second version as the candidate, unless the image labels clearly indicate another ordering. Inspect the highest available resolution; do not base the decision only on a downscaled preview.

Determine whether the candidate triggers a semantic-confusion gate.

Critical gate rule: compare the directed micro-edge sets in both directions. Compute the semantic difference `candidate minus reference` as well as `reference minus candidate`, including short intermediate segments, parallel segments, junctions, and individual arrowheads at bends. If either difference is non-empty, the gate is triggered. Do not return `triggered: false` merely because every reference edge can be found in the candidate. A clear mismatch inside one repeated/local module is sufficient; matching the outer chain or the apparent high-level function does not cancel it. Treat the drawing as a graph to be audited, not as an architectural template to be completed or made symmetric from prior knowledge.

Non-negotiable local test: for every matched module, first align a high-resolution crop and compare the visible dark connector strokes before interpreting the architecture. Trace each stroke and record its sides (left/top/right/bottom), endpoints, and junctions. If a side or short run is present in only one panel, mark a candidate-only/reference-only difference immediately. Only after this stroke-difference pass may you decide that a mark is a box border or harmless rendering. An open three-sided bypass and a closed four-sided bypass are different topologies even when they surround the same nodes or are both informally called a skip/residual path.

Use this inspection procedure internally before deciding:

1. Build a node inventory for both versions. Check every explicit process/state node and every key step box. A node is missing if a meaningful node or key step box from the reference has no corresponding candidate node; ignore harmless differences in scale, spacing, typography, color, or panel size.
2. Build an edge inventory for the reference and candidate. For every visible connection, record its source node/port, target node/port, direction, bends, and junctions. Compare the inventories by semantic endpoints and direction, not by pixel coordinates. Check one edge at a time for missing edges, wrong endpoints, changed routing topology, and reversed directions. Do this twice: first scan for candidate-only edges/segments, then scan for reference-only edges/segments.
3. If the input is a wide side-by-side composite, first split it conceptually or with crops into corresponding reference/candidate panels and inspect each pair at the highest available magnification. Do not decide from the single downscaled overview. For repeated rows or mirrored branches, keep a row-by-row and branch-by-branch checklist so that small differences in one repeated connection are not skipped.
4. For every grouped or repeated module, inspect the local topology at high magnification before judging the whole diagram. Trace each visible stroke from one node/port/junction to the next and make a literal segment ledger. Compare the left, top, right, and bottom runs separately, including residual/shortcut paths, bypasses, U/L/rectangular loops, return segments underneath or behind a box, parallel branches, split/merge junctions, and whether a loop is open or closed. An extra candidate-only run or a missing reference-only run is a semantic edge difference even when it is short, unarrowed, touches the same two nodes, or leaves the main chain functionally plausible. Do not infer a missing run from symmetry, and do not add a run mentally because the module “should” have a residual connection.
   Distinguish a connector from a mere box border, shadow, or enclosure outline only after the stroke pass, by checking whether it meets a node port or connector junction and participates in the flow. Do not dismiss a connector as a border merely because it is short, unarrowed, lies under a node, or completes one side of a rectangular route. Conversely, do not count a border that has no flow junction. For dense modules, inspect a magnified crop and then re-check the full panel so that an internal local mismatch cannot be hidden by the overall overview.
5. Pay special attention to long routed connections, lines that run along an outer boundary/frame, feedback loops, and connections that leave a subgraph and re-enter elsewhere. Trace each such line continuously all the way to both terminal nodes; do not stop at a bend, panel border, crop-like whitespace, or a nearby crossing line. A boundary path may be visually far from the nodes it connects.
6. Perform an explicit arrowhead-endpoint audit for every long, orthogonal, or boundary-routed path: inspect both ends at high zoom and record whether the path has an arrowhead at the first endpoint, the second endpoint, both endpoints, or neither. Compare this arrowhead placement between reference and candidate. A single arrowhead moved from one end to the other, added, or removed is a direction/edge semantic error even if the underlying polyline still touches the same two nodes. Do not treat a barely visible arrowhead as absent without zooming the endpoint.
7. Treat an arrowhead as part of the edge semantics, not as decoration. A candidate line that reaches the same node but lacks the reference arrowhead, or has it at the opposite endpoint, is not a match. Build the ledger in both directions: for every reference edge, locate its candidate counterpart, and for every candidate edge, short return segment, parallel segment, or arrowhead, locate its reference counterpart. Internally write entries in the form `reference: A -> B / candidate: A -> B`; an unmatched candidate line or arrowhead is itself a confirmed difference, even if it is short, unarrowed, or adjacent to an otherwise matching line. Only mark an edge matching when endpoints, arrowhead count, and direction all agree.
8. Perform a segment-level arrow audit for every polyline connection, not just its node endpoints: record all arrowheads on each segment, at every bend, and near every junction. An arrowhead before a bend, after a bend, or at a junction is not semantically interchangeable with one on another segment. Even when the overall polyline touches the same two nodes, an intermediate arrowhead that is added, removed, moved, or reversed must trigger the gate. At a shared bend, explicitly distinguish a horizontal arrowhead from a vertical arrowhead; do not collapse them into one undirected line.
9. Infer direction from the actual arrowhead geometry. Do not infer it from the line's left-to-right or top-to-bottom routing, from which node looks visually closer, or from the direction of a neighboring edge. When a connection has arrowheads at both ends, record it as bidirectional and do not call it a reversal merely because one of the two arrowheads is easy to miss. Do not invent differences caused by antialiasing, overlap, or resolution.
10. Check outer/boundary paths, long feedback paths, and all dense junctions in a separate pass before finalizing the verdict, after the local subgraphs have been inventoried. Confirm that every arrowhead lies on the same segment, bend, or endpoint in the reference and candidate, with the same direction. Explicitly scan the candidate for extra short return lines, parallel lines, or extra arrowheads that are absent from the reference. Do not conclude “no difference” after checking only the dense internal subgraphs, and do not infer an outer path's direction from the direction of nearby fan-in/fan-out edges.
11. Normalize harmless rendering changes (rescaling, repositioning, small line-length changes caused by layout, font size, box color, antialiasing, and aspect ratio). Ignore an embedded payload only when the change is demonstrably decorative or a non-semantic texture/photo/rendering artifact. If the payload is a labeled state/output or contains discrete task-relevant structure (for example a mask, feature/result pattern, value/shape cue, symbol count or placement, or any mark that functions as a node or connector), compare it and count a clear meaningful change. Do not dismiss all differences inside a payload wholesale. Only a confirmed node/step omission, semantic payload change, or semantic edge difference should trigger the gate.

Before emitting the JSON, complete this internal three-question check: (a) is there any candidate-only node, payload/state, connector segment, junction, or arrowhead; (b) is there any reference-only one; and (c) did any matched endpoint acquire a different route or arrowhead placement? A “yes” to any question means `triggered: true`. Do not write `triggered: false` until all three answers are “no” and the local-module ledger and outer-path audit agree.

Set `triggered` to true if at least one confirmed missing key node/step or one confirmed edge error exists (reversed direction, wrong endpoint, missing key flow line, or changed arrowhead placement on an endpoint or intermediate segment). Set it to false only after all key nodes and all key connections—including long outer paths, feedback paths, and junction-level arrowheads—have been checked and match.

Return JSON only, with exactly this shape:

{
  "gate_keeper": {
    "triggered": true,
    "reason": "..."
  }
}

The `reason` string is mandatory and must be non-empty for both outcomes. If triggered, identify the affected node/step or connection and state the specific semantic discrepancy, including the observed direction and the reference direction. If not triggered, state that the key nodes and directional connections were checked and match, including the long outer/feedback paths.
